# Pizza_Sales_Inshight( End To End Project)
Tools Used: MS Excel, MySQL, and Power BI

Domino's Pizza Sales Performance Analysis

Objective: The objective is to increase Domino's sales by analyzing the sales data from the year, 2022, and finding key insights.

Understanding Requirements: The key indicators for pizza sales data will be analyzed to gain insights into business performance. Specifically,
the following metrics will be calculated: Total revenue, average order value, total pizzas sold, total orders, and average pizzas per order. 
Different aspects of pizza sales data will be visualized to gain insights and understand key trends, including: 

1. Daily trend for total orders 📈
2. Monthly trend for total orders 📅
3. Percentage of sales by pizza category
4. Percentage of sales by pizza size
5. Total pizzas sold by pizza category
6. Top 5 best sellers by revenue, total quantity, and total orders
7. Bottom 5 worst sellers by revenue, total quantity, and total orders



Skills Used: The skills used in this project include data cleaning, data transformation, ETL, Power Query, DAX (Data Analysis Expression) for
measures and metrics, data analysis, data visualization, reports, and dashboards. SQL queries will be used to validate data.

Key Insights: 

- KPI: Total revenue: $817.86K, Total orders: 21K, Total pizzas sold: 50K, Average order value: $38.31
- Daily trend for total orders: The number of orders received on weekends and Mondays/Tuesdays in the afternoon and evening was higher.
- Monthly trend for total orders: Good orders were received in January, March, May, July, and August for Pizza C.
- Pizza Category: Classic contributes to the maximum sales and total orders.
- Pizza Size: Large size pizza contributes to maximum sales (45.89% of total sales).
- Revenue: Maximum revenue was generated by the Thai Chicken Pizza, while the Brie Carre Pizza generated the minimum income.
- Total Orders: The Classic Deluxe Pizza received the maximum number of orders, while the Brie Carre Pizza received the minimum.
- Total Quantity: The Classic Deluxe Pizza was the top seller in terms of total quantity sold, while the Brie Carre Pizza was the lowest seller.

